Jeffrey Glass | Duke FinTech Master of Engineering


































Skip to main content








Duke University
Pratt School of Engineering











News
Steering Committee
Contact
 












Why Duke?The Duke DifferenceCareer ServicesGraduate OutcomesWhat Tech Leaders Are SayingDegreeCoursesFacultyApply























Jeffrey Glass












Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Jeffrey T. Glass is a Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering with a secondary appointment as a Professor in the Department of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science at Duke University. He is the Faculty Director of Duke's Master of Engineering Management Program and also holds the Hogg Family endowed chair in Engineering Management and Entrepreneurship. Formerly, he was the Co-Director of The Institute for the Integration of Management and Engineering at Case Western Reserve University (CWRU) and held the Joseph F. Toot, Jr. endowed chair in the Case School of Engineering. Prior to these university appointments he was the Vice President of R&D for Kobe Steel USA Inc. Jeff received his Bachelors and Masters degrees from Johns Hopkins University, and a Ph.D. in Materials Science and Engineering from the University of Virginia. He also received an MBA from Duke University's Global Executive (GEMBA) program. 
His current appointment involves research in electronic materials and the associated devices/instruments improved by these materials. In particular, miniature mass spectrometer development and engineered systems for waste treatment are systems of focus for his lab. He is also involved in the development of joint educational, research and technology transfer activities related to the intersection of business and technology. He consults and holds advisory board appointments with various companies in materials-related areas and has served as an expert witness in patent litigation. Prior to his appointment at CWRU, he was the Vice President of R&D for Kobe Steel USA Inc. with a focus on electronic materials. Prior to joining Kobe Steel, he was a tenured faculty member in the Department of Materials Science and Engineering at North Carolina State University. He has been involved in the study of Innovation Management in technology-based organizations with a focus on the early stages of technical development and received the 2004 Industrial Research Institute’s Maurice Holland Award for his paper entitled “Managing the Ties Between Central R&D and Business Units.” 
Jeff's technical research has focused on the growth and characterization of thin films for electronics, including carbon nanotubes, graphene, graphenated carbon nanotubes, diamond, silicon carbide and chalcogenides. Chemical vapor deposition, sputtering, materials analysis and electronic/electrochemical properties are his areas of interest. Miniature mass spectrometers, decentralized waste treatment, smart toilets and photoelectrochemical energy conversion devices are some of the applications his lab focuses on. He has published over 175 papers and book chapters, edited seven books and is a co-inventor on 14 patents. He has been a short course instructor for several professional societies and companies and has organized numerous conferences. He has given over 75 invited presentations in 12 different countries. He served as a member of a Presidential Science Advisor's committee for the assessment of diamond technology in Japan and has received two teaching awards and the National Science Foundation Presidential Young Investigator award. He has held adjunct faculty appointments at North Carolina State University, Case Western Reserve University and the Kenan-Flagler Business School at the University of North Carolina where he has taught executive courses on Managing Innovation.

Appointments and Affiliations
Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Director of the Pratt Masters Programs and Hogg Family  Director of Engineering Management and Entrepreneurship
Senior Associate Dean for  Education and Learning Innovation
Professor in the Department of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science
Faculty Network Member of The Energy Initiative
Associate of the Duke Initiative for Science & Society
Core Faculty in Innovation & Entrepreneurship


Contact Information

Office Location: Packages: Hudson Hall Room 129, Office: Teer Bldg Rm 118, Durham, NC 27708
Office Phone: (919) 452-7158
Email Address: jeff.glass@duke.edu
Websites: Google Scholars Web Page
 J.T.Glass Nanomaterials and Thin Films Lab
 Masters of Engineering Management Program



Education
M.B.A. Duke University, 1999
Ph.D. University of Virginia, 1986
M.Sc.Eng. Johns Hopkins University, 1983
B.S.E. Johns Hopkins University, 1981



Research Interests
Electronic materials and the associated devices/instruments improved by these materials, especially electrode applications in miniature mass spectrometry, energy conversion and storage and liquid waste disinfection for developing regions. Electrochemical measurements and applications of thin films, including carbon nanotubes, graphene and atomic layer deposited oxides are of particular interest

Awards, Honors, and Distinctions
Highly Cited Researcher. Thomson Reuters. 2001



Courses Taught
ECE  899: Special Readings in Electrical Engineering
EGRMGMT  572: Innovation Management in Technology-Based Organizations
EGRMGMT  590: Advanced Topics in Engineering Management
EGRMGMT  591: Special Readings in Engineering Management
ME  493: Engineering Undergraduate Fellows Projects
ME  494: Engineering Undergraduate Fellows Projects
MSEG  591: Independent Study


In the News
 Stretched to Eight Times Their Size, These Supercapacitors Are Ready for Your Wearable Devices (Mar 19, 2020 | Pratt School of Engineering)
 Toilet Paper Sabotage Isn't Stopping Progress on Project to 'Reinvent the Toilet' (Feb 17, 2020 | Pratt School of Engineering)
 Reinventing the Toilet (Nov 5, 2018 | Duke Stories)
 Duke's Community-Based Toilet System Begins Testing in India (Apr 25, 2018 | Duke Global Health Institute)
 Duke's Community-Based Toilet System Begins Testing in India (Apr 4, 2018 | Pratt School of Engineering)
 Duke, RTI International Partner on Improved Global Sanitation (Aug 28, 2017)
 Engineering the Toilet: Duke Faculty Take on the Modern Sanitation Crisis (May 15, 2017 | Pratt School of Engineering)
 Energy Initiative Awards Seven New Seed Grants (Apr 28, 2017)
 Coding and Computers Help Spot Methane, Explosives (Apr 15, 2016)
 Duke University innovation may lead to portable mass spectrometers (Apr 14, 2016 | Homeland Security Today)
 Duke Engineers Help Launch Off-Grid Sanitation System in India (Sep 25, 2015)
 Sniffing Out Gas Leaks: Pratt Researchers Work on Next-Generation Methane Detector (Feb 19, 2015)
 Energy deputy secretary: Duke’s innovative energy research essential to security, safety (Apr 24, 2014)
 Energy Initiative Provides First Round of Research Seed Funding (Apr 16, 2014)
 U.S. Reps Visit Federally Funded Airport Security Research at Duke (Nov 7, 2013)


Representative Publications
Vyas, R; Herr, PJ; Aloui, T; Horvath, K; Kirley, MP; Parker, CB; Keil, AD; Carlson, JB; Keogh, J; Sperline, RP; Denton, MB; Sartorelli, ML; Stoner, BR; Gehm, ME; Glass, JT; Amsden, JJ, Comparison of thermionic filament and carbon nanotube field emitter-based electron ionization sources in cycloidal coded aperture mass analyzers, International Journal of Mass Spectrometry, vol 457 (2020) [10.1016/j.ijms.2020.116415] [abs].
Aloui, T; Kirley, MP; Vick, E; Hilton, A; Colon, P; Kim, W; Parker, CB; Amsden, JJ; Glass, JT; Gilchrist, KH, High current density electron emission from an electrodeposited metal nanowire array, Journal of Vacuum Science & Technology B, Nanotechnology and Microelectronics: Materials, Processing, Measurement, and Phenomena, vol 38 no. 4 (2020) [10.1116/6.0000135] [abs].
Zhou, Y; Cao, C; Cao, Y; Han, Q; Parker, CB; Glass, JT, Robust and High-Performance Electrodes via Crumpled Au-CNT Forests for Stretchable Supercapacitors, Matter, vol 2 no. 5 (2020), pp. 1307-1323 [10.1016/j.matt.2020.02.024] [abs].
Zhou, Y; Maleski, K; Anasori, B; Thostenson, JO; Pang, Y; Feng, Y; Zeng, K; Parker, CB; Zauscher, S; Gogotsi, Y; Glass, JT; Cao, C, Ti3C2Tx MXene-Reduced Graphene Oxide Composite Electrodes for Stretchable Supercapacitors., Acs Nano, vol 14 no. 3 (2020), pp. 3576-3586 [10.1021/acsnano.9b10066] [abs].
Zhou, Y; Parker, CB; Joshi, P; Naskar, AK; Glass, JT; Cao, C, 4D Printing of Stretchable Supercapacitors via Hybrid Composite Materials, Advanced Materials Technologies (2020) [10.1002/admt.202001055] [abs].











​Join our mailing list!Sign up to receive more information about Duke Engineering graduate programs and recruitment events »





























© Copyright 2011-2021 Duke University









 



Main Menu

Why Duke?The Duke DifferenceCareer ServicesGraduate OutcomesWhat Tech Leaders Are SayingDegreeCoursesFacultyApply 
Quick Links

NewsSteering CommitteeContact 